One other thing I wanted to talk about is
how we abstract things in our source code.
So there's more than just like,
through plugins is how you're gonna
modify anything in Webpack, right?
So there are some other things that we do
abstract that are maybe important to know.
So for example,
you must wonder, well, Sean,
how do you guys do output in memory,
right?
Well, our file system is
completely abstracted.
In this code base,
we never perform a FS call ever, never.
So there is no required FS,
because that would completely remove our
ability to do in-memory stuff, right?
And so, we've completely abstracted it.
I think it's in MemoryFile system.
Yep, it's funny cuz this is the file.
But in our source code, our MemoryFile
system is actually, we've abstracted,
we've written this ourselves as well,
called memory-fs.
And this is a package under Webpack.
And it basically just allows you to bind
fs to an in-memory version of itself.
And so, this is actually used and
set during output file system.
Here we go.
Where is it?
File system.
There's an API where we
set this on the compiler.
There we go.
So we instantiate this, and we actually
set it to nothing if, it's the,
we have two different ones that
we set versus in memory or not.
But you could take this, and as long as it
has the right fs calls, you could have it
pulling in sources and
exporting sources to a Redis cache.
You could do anything.
Well, there is a great talk online that
talks about how because everything is so
de-coupled in webpack and so abstracted,
you have the ability to essentially,
you could take a MongoDB database,
or some online service database.
And as long as you implement the right
adapter so that it works like FS,
you could hook into the compiler and
set compiler.input and
output file system to these values.
And so I've seen people do this and
just do incredible, crazy things.
Somebody was telling me,
we were running 1,000 webpack
builds every minute, I think.
And sharing the dependencies,
sharing the module sources
through a single Redis cache
between all these instances.
And then that way,
they were able to do just crazy stuff.
It just blows my mind.
So yes, so
that piece is completely abstracted.
Technically, because our resolver
is in a separate package, if you
felt the motivation to write a separate
entire resolver, you could do that.
We don't make any resolver calls for
the exception of resolver.resolve,
I think, right?
I think resolver.resolve, and
that's the only time we make those calls.
So that means technically you could
write a completely separate resolver,
replace it in webpack through the,
I believe the compiler sets it.
No, I'm sorry, webpack options apply.
>> Sean Larkin: Options apply,
and then find resolver.
Yep, and there's actually hooks for this.
So [COUGH] You can hook into this and
literally set a different
resolver if you wanted to.
So let's say if you wanted to completely
resolve from network resources.
So instead of ever having
build files on disc,
you could use a get virtual file system
and write a resolver that you could
replace the resolver entirely for
webpack, and you could do that.
I've had thoughts, but
remember there's caveats.
If you do a network resolver,
you break watch mode, right,
because how's it gonna pull
changes from the network?
If you wanna solve that problem,
let me know, because that's cool.
So yes, and
you can even see here when we set
the resolver, what are we also setting?
The file system.
So all of these pieces are decouplable,
all these pieces can be abstracted,
or abstracted.
I mean, overall it may feel silly
that really all we did was hook into
a couple hooks, but this is really
how you make a webpack plugin.
I guess another thing that I could
cover is that you don't always have
to get the compiler.
Like if we look at
the source code in webpack,
we see that we have parser plugins.
And I wanna talk just
really briefly about that.
So it's like, when we look,
how does a parser plugin work?
Because really, when you look in here,
it says parser, right.
So now the purpose is to encapsulate it,
right?
Cuz you just don't want
a ginormous plugin,
especially if you have
these separate behaviors.
And so what you can do is,
I think CommonJsMod, or Plugin?
There we go.
>> Sean Larkin: So we take a plugin and
you can apply other plugins from it.
So if we go down to
the bottom of this code and
we look,
>> Sean Larkin: You can take a plugin,
any plugin, you can apply that method, and
just pass in whatever you want
to be hooking into, right?
So in this case, in this webpack plugin,
this is how we support
the CommonJS syntax, right?
So at a whim, we could just delete
this plugin from our source code and
we don't support CommonJS anymore.
We isolate the feature
sets per each plugin.
And so in this case, this dependency
parser plugin is just specifically for
the purpose of listening
to that parser hook.
So we tap into the parser and
then we're gonna apply the parser to it.
So we go there and so that's just
responsible for hooking into the specific
parcer, adding the dependencies,
adding the templates, etc.
So you can do that.
You can basically separate your plugins
into smaller plugins that get applied per
instance.
That's totally a possibility.
So if we were to even just go back to our
plugin and refactor this, we could do so.
We could say,
I'm just gonna write it in a single file.
So I could say,
class MyFirstWebpackCompilationPlugin.
Now, we use kind of a naming convention,
where it's like whatever we're passing it
to, we would add that name to the bottom.
So that's why we have ParserPlugin,
I instantlyy know looking at it, that's
someting that gets the partial passed into
it instead of just the whole compiler.
So that means your apply method
will actually take a compilation.
And it's just really a naming convention.
You could call it whatever
the heck you want.
So instead I could say
something like this.
So this code, really,
I could move down in here, right?
Boom.
And then I would just say,
now I obviously can't access
that closure variable anymore,
but we could essentially
say something like this.
MyFirstWebpackCompilationPlugin.
But I think they call new on it too,
right?
Sorry, I just want to
confirm that I'm not,
>> Sean Larkin: You do call new,
yes, you do.
Okay, great.
So, new
MyFirstWebpackCompilationPlugin().apply(c-
ompilation), right?
So just an easier way to create separation
of concerns, isolate your behavior.
I even find that it makes your
plugins easier to read, right?
Cuz now you can separate your behavior,
you don't have as many callbacks and
indirection, stuff like that.
Even if I like,
let's say we actually try and run this.
I'll just jump into,
I'll just say yarn debug or mpm run debug.
And I'll cheat and use VS code, okay.
>> Sean Larkin: All right,
yep, we're in that.
I could put this in a separate file,
it doesn't matter.
But that's the point here.
It's an easier way, this is the best
practice for writing plugins.
And really it's just a reflection of how
we write it ourselves for the code base.